# GoldProductionOptimization

Zyfra is company that specializes in developing artificial intelligence and IIoT-based solutions and robotic mining equiptment for heavy industry. One of Zyfra's clients is a gold mining/processing company, who has hired Zyfra to determine whether machine learning can identify ways to optimize the production of gold and eliminate unprofitable parameters. Out task is to prepare a prototype of a machine learning model, based on extraction and purification data, that predicts the amount of gold recovered from gold ore. In the following sections, we will prepare the data, train and test machine learning models, and compare the efficacy of the models with dummy models.

**Summary**: The aim of this project was to prepare a prototype of a model based on extraction and purification data that predicts the amount of gold recovered from gold ore. In carrying out this task, we fist preprocessed the data; this involved checking for duplicates, scaling the data, filling the NaNS, and adding target values to the testing dataset. We then analyzed the data, examining the concentration of metals at various stages, visualizing the total concentration of all metals after key processes, determining whether the distribution of feed particle sizes in the training and testing datasets are similar, and removing outliers. Next, we built functions to calculate the final sMAPE score from predictions and target values, and we trained various regression estimators. We selected the estimator which provided the lowest sMAPE score and obtained the score for the testing datasets using the identified optimal parameters. Finally, we checked out score against the score provided by a sanity 'model'.

Whereas the sMAPE score for out best model appeared quite good at approximately 6.28 percent, we needed to test this model against a sanity 'model' to get an accurate idea of how our model performs. As it turns out, our sanity 'models' sMAPE score was 7.54 percent, which is more than 1 percent higher than our score using the testing dataset. This is, however, also lower than the score we obtained on the training dataset. Perhaps the reason we have a lower sMAPE on the testing dataset has to do with how the samples were chosen for each set - if they were not chosen at random, this could have resulted in an unfair advantage being given to one set. If this is the case, then retraining and testing with randomized datasets would be a good idea.

While our model's weren't able to provide a sMAPE score far below the sanity 'model's' score, we understand that it is in Zyfra's best interest to tune their process in such a way as to obtain the maximum amount of gold from ore. As such, we would recommend that those who prepare the data and understand the gold-extraction process carefully examine the features in the gold_full dataset and organize them by importance (perhaps by correlation with target values). Selecting only those with the highest importance, we would recommend collecting more data and using it to train and test the regression models again. Perhaps with weighted features, a model can be obtained that provides a much lower sMAPE score than the sanity 'model's'.

